Introduction to GITHUB

About GITHUB and GIT GITHUB is a cloud-based platform where you can store, share and work together with others to write code. Collaborative working, one of GITHUB's fundamental features is made possible by the open-source software,GIT,upon which GITHUB is built. About GIT

GIT is a verison control system that intelligently tracks changes in files.
GIT is particularly useful when you and a group of people are all making changes to the same files at the same time.
When you upload files to GITHUB, you'll store them in a "GIT repository".
This means that when you made changes (or "commits") to your files in GITHUB, GIT will automatically start to track and manage your changes.
Once you start to collaborate with others and all need to work on the same repository at the same time, you'll continually-
Pull all the latest changes made by your collaborators from the remote repository on GITHUB
GITHUB figures out how to intelligently merge this flow of changes, and GITHUB helps ypu manage the flow through features such as "pull requests"
PMT- Project Management Tools GITHUB: Created account with personal information GITHUB Sidebar menu:

Home:

Shows the activity from people you follow.
Recent repositories, notifications and updates
Issues:

Used to report and track problems or tasks in a project. Eg: New feature request. Bug found in Code. Task to complete.
Pull Requests: Used to suggest changes to a project. Process : -You edit the code -Your request the owner to review - They approve and merge -Its how collaboration happens in GITHUB.

Repositories: -Where your projects are stored -Contains : Code files -README -Images -Documentation

A repository = One project folder
Projects: -Used for managing tasks visually. -Helps organize large projects

Discussions: -Used for asking questions and general conversations about a project -Not for bugs -More likely a community chat

Codespacde: -Cloud-based coding environment. -We can : -Write code -Run Code -Test Projects

Capilot: -AI coding assistant by GITHUB -It suggests: -Code -Functions -Logic (while we type)

Explore: Discover: -Popular repositories -Trending Projects -Open source contributions -Good for learning new things

Marketplace: -Apps and tools you can connect with GITHUB. eg: CI/CD tools

Security tools
Project Management apps.
11. MCP Registry:
    - Used for managing Model Context Protocol
    - Mostly used by developers working wit AI integrations.